h1. how to Maintaining Env variables for sudoers

h2. statement

Working on a Java training environement, I was hurting myself on a simple issue: any command executed through the "sudo" admin passthrough was not successful due to leak of environement variables set into some of my specific files:

* "/etc/default/javaenvsettings":./etc/default/javaenvsettings
* "/etc/skel/.javaenvsettings":./etc/skel/.javaenvsettings
* "/etc/skel/.bashrc":./etc/skel/.bashrc

h2. solution

So, seeking the web for a solid solution, I've found an entry from "stackoverflow":http://stackoverflow.com/questions/8633461/how-to-keep-environment-variables-when-using-sudo explaining secret of the @/etc/sudoers.d/@ directory.

in such path you can create any file, (with a chmod 0440) containing any sudo definition.

With the magical following command you will be abale to maintain some environement variables set for a connected user to the sudo environement.

file : "/etc/sudoers.d/environement":./etc/sudoers.d/environement

bc(bash). Defaults env_keep +="JAVA_VERSION"
Defaults env_keep +="ST_VERSION"
Defaults env_keep +="MAVEN_VERSION"
Defaults env_keep +="ECLIPSE_VERSION"
Defaults env_keep +="INTELLIJ_VERSION"
Defaults env_keep +="TOOLS_HOME"
Defaults env_keep +="ECLIPSE_HOME"
Defaults env_keep +="M2_HOME"
Defaults env_keep +="JAVA_HOME"
Defaults env_keep +="PATH"
Defaults env_keep +="INTELLIJ_HOME"

With such lines all those variables from user environement will be maintained (env_keep) to the sudo execution environement.

h2. Any new user ?

for any newly created user, the previoulsy prensented files are added to the @.bashrc@ execution process, so environement variables are well set and usable.

That's it !

Have fun !

McG.